[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So there are 10 keys for
unlocking your full potential.
Number 1 is a good diet.
You are what you eat.
Literally what you
eat becomes you.
So eat the best
brain foods ever.
Number 2 is killing ANTs.
Killing ANTs is actually
clinically proven
to unlock your potential.
ANTs stands for Automatic
Negative Thoughts.
Because the truth is yes,
you are what you eat,
but you also are your thoughts.
And so you want to
keep them positive
and you want to keep
them encouraging.
There are studies that
suggest that pessimists
are more accurate,
they're right more often,
but optimists
achieve a lot more.
And think about it.
Because pessimists are
really risk adverse
so they play it
safe and so they're
not getting as much
done and accomplished,
but optimists are
taking more risks.
And with those
risks come rewards.
But when it comes to getting
rid of negative thoughts, what
I would tell people is
this, is remember magic.
Use your magic.
ABRA-- A-B-R-A.
Remember Abracadabra?
Abracadabra is all about taking
words and changing things
with transformational words.
So if you have a negative
talk, negative self talk,
and negative limiting
belief, what I want to do
are four simple things.
The A in ABRA says Acknowledge.
You acknowledge that.
So maybe you say something like,
oh, you know, I'm just too old
or, oh, I'm just--
this doesn't run in
my family or, oh, I'm
just not smart enough or
good enough, acknowledge it.
Don't resist it.
Because if you fight it,
what you resist persists.
So just acknowledge it.
The B in ABRA
stands for Breathe.
It stands for Breath.
Because what you do
is you breathe in--
and when I'm breathing,
I'm visualizing.
We're talking about
breath and visualization.
I breathe in potential.
I breathe in intelligence.
I breathe in limitless.
And I breathe into
the place in my body,
whether it's pain I'm suffering
from or struggling with
or an idea in my mind, I
breathe into that space.
And then the R in
ABRA is I Release.
I release.
I release that
negative thought, that
automatic negative thought.
I release that pain.
I release limits out.
And finally, the last A
in ABRA stands for Align.
Align.
I reset.
I do zero base.
Like, what's the opposite
of what I was feeling,
or what's the opposite of
what I was saying to myself?
What's my true
fullest potential?
And I align more
to my true nature.
Another thing you could
do to be able to lock
your full potential
is exercise, right?
So exercise, really
good for the brain.
As your body moves,
your brain grooves.
A lot of people don't know
this, but the primary function
of our brain is to
control our movement.
And here's what
the latest science
is saying-- is just
there's not only
just a brain-body
connection, there's
a body-brain connection.
The challenge is we're so
sedentary all the time, right?
We live a very
sedentary culture.
They say sitting
is the new smoking.
And I encourage people
to take brain breaks.
The Pomodoro Technique
says that our focus,
we can only maintain high
focus for about 25 minutes.
After that, there's
a sharp decline.
And so what I do
is I set an alarm
to go off every 25 to 30
minutes, maybe an hour tops.
And then what I do is
I take a little brain
break, a 5-minute brain
break, to do three things.
Number 1, I hydrate.
Number 2, I do deep breathing.
And the third thing
I do is I move.
As your body moves,
your brain grooves.
Another thing you could do
that maximize your potential
are supplements,
nutrients, especially when
it comes to your brain.
You could do all the techniques.
But if you're deficient in
DHAs, omegas, your B vitamins,
it's going to affect
your performance.
So if you're not
getting the best diet,
you could supplement.
Number 5 is a
positive peer group.
Positive peer group is
really key to living
your full potential because you
are who you spend time with.
Literally who you spend
time with is who you become.
After that, I would say
a clean environment.
A clean environment's
really good for your brain,
for you living your
fullest potential,
because-- you know this.
If you ever clean your
desk or your laptop,
don't you have more sharpness?
Don't you have
clarity of thought?
So a clean environment
is reflective of clarity
of thought.
Number 7 is sleep.
You need sleep, especially
for your mental performance
for two reasons.
Number 1, it's where
you consolidate
short to long-term memory.
That's really key.
You need to consolidate
short to long memory.
That happens when you sleep.
Number 2, though, is where
you're cleaning out the plaque
that leads to dementia
and Alzheimer's.
Actually, when you sleep is
when you're actually doing that.
And then the third
reason, a bonus reason,
is it's when you dream.
The eighth key, another key to
unlocking your full potential,
is to protect your brain.
What do I mean?
Wear a helmet.
Your brain-- note,
coming from somebody
who's had many traumatic brain
injuries falling off roofs,
headfirst into radiators,
your brain is resilient,
but it's also very fragile.
So with you and your kids,
avoid the extreme sports,
wear a helmet, you know,
wear your seat belt--
all those things to
protect your brain.
And the next key for unlocking
your full mental potential
is new learnings.
Commit yourself to
lifelong learnings.
There was a study done
on [? supernuns. ?]
It was on the cover
of "Time" magazine.
And they wanted to find out how
these women were living 80, 90,
and above in age.
And they found out half of it
had to do with their gratitude,
going back to
gratitude and faith.
The other half, though,
had to do with they
were lifelong learners.
They were committed
to lifelong learning,
learning every single day.
Because we've discovered
more about the human brain
more in the past 20 years
than the previous 2,000 years.
And with studies
done on neurogenesis
and neuroplasticity,
neurogenesis says--
"neuro" meaning the
brain, "genesis" meaning
birth-- you could give birth
to new brain cells to the day
you die.
Neuroplasticity-- this
is really exciting-- says
that your brain is like
plastic in a positive way,
meaning it's very malleable,
that having a new thought
creates new connections.
So for example, Einstein's brain
wasn't any bigger than anybody
else's.
If anything, it's smaller.
But there are certain
parts of his brain
that are extremely
dense because he
wired his brain through
his, what he called, thought
experiments.
He would visualize himself
riding a beam of light,
looking at something and
wondering what that thing would
look like going at light speed.
He would do these
thought experiments.
He's the one that
said, "Imagination is
more powerful than knowledge."
Because knowledge is
what is, but imagination
is what things could be.
So commit yourself
to lifelong learning.
And what stimulates neurogenesis
and neuroplasticity,
two things--
novelty and nutrition.
Novelty and nutrition.
It's just like if you want to
build your physical muscles.
If you want to build a
muscle, you give it novelty,
or you work it out,
you give it exercise.
And then you give it
nutrients to feed it.
Same thing with your
mental muscles--
give it novelty, new
things, and then give it
the nutrients it
needs to develop.
And finally, the last
key for unlocking
your full mental potential
is stress management.
And this is a huge one,
because a lot of people--
because we live in
such stressed lives.
We're like fish.
We don't see the water
because we're in the water
all the time, and we are living
in that sympathetic state.
And it's so important for
your brain to down regulate,
to spend time in those
parasympathetic places
where you rest and you
recover and you restore.
So in terms of
stress management,
what kind of
practices do we have?
Whether it's massage, whether--
for me, it's meditation.
So meditation is a
very powerful way.
When you meditate, you go
into this brainwave state
called alpha.
Alpha state is the state
of a relaxed awareness.
And relaxed awareness is where
you could train yourself,
actually, to learn
a language faster,
to be able to learn rapidly,
because your conscious mind is
actually set aside and you
just absorb information faster.
You know what puts you
into an alpha state is TV--
television.
They call it television
programming for a reason.
And you know this
because if you've ever
seen somebody so enthralled with
a TV show or a sporting event
and you're trying to talk to
them or have a conversation
and they're just entranced--
literally they don't
hear you-- it's
because their conscious
mind is set aside
and they're just absorbing
what's in front of them.
And there are many ways to get
into an alpha state by design.
And I would recommend use
all three learning styles--
visual, auditory,
and kinesthetic.
So when you visualize things and
you exercise your imagination,
it actually puts you
into an alpha state,
a relaxed state of awareness.
And even if you can't
imagine something
when you're imagining,
just imagine
you can imagine it, right?
The auditory part is music.
Certain sounds
like nature sounds
will put you into
an alpha state.
Certain sounds like
classical music, especially
Baroque classical music--
Vivaldi, Handel, because
it's 60 beats per minute
and it harmonizes with
the resting heart rate.
So 60 beats per
minute Baroque music
will help put you into a
meditative alpha state.
And finally visual
auditory kinesthetic.
Kinesthetic, I would
say deep breathing.
Deep, diaphragmic,
conscious breathing.
And even when you're not
meditating, a lot of people
have bad posture.
And when they're reading
something and they're studying,
you can't live
your full potential
if you're crouched
down like this.
Because when you
have poor posture,
you collapse your lungs, right?
And the lower 1/3 of your lungs
absorbs 2/3 of the oxygen.
And what's most important is
that oxygen gets to your brain.
So if you suffer from
mental fatigue or brain fog,
the number one
thing you could do
is do deep
diaphragmatic breathing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]